Disambiguate security properties per rdd review (#1430)
ietf-tapswg/api-drafts: draft-ietf-taps-interface.md

of Connection establishment. Similar to Transport Properties, both parameters and callbacks
are inherited during cloning (see {{groups}}).

This document specifies an abstract API, which may appear to conflict with the need
for security parameters to be unambiguous in order to reduce the chances
of implementation errors. The Transport Services system SHOULD provide reasonable,
secure defaults for each enumerated security parameter, such that users of the system
only need to specify parameters required to establish a secure connection
('server-certificate', 'client-certificate'). Specifying specific security parameters
from enumerated values (e.g., specific ciphersuites) may constrain the Transport
Protocols that can be selected during connection establishment.

> Except as noted below, as with the rest of the TAPS system, exact names of parameters and/or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Except as noted below, as with the rest of the Transport Services API, exact names of parameters and/or
```

> This document specifies an abstract API, which may appear to conflict with the need
> for security parameters to be unambiguous in order to reduce the chances
> of implementation errors. The Transport Services system SHOULD provide reasonable, 
> secure defaults for each enumerated security parameter, such that users of the system
> only need to specify parameters required to establish a secure connection 
> ('server-certificate', 'client-certificate'). Specifying specific security parameters
> from enumerated values (e.g., specific ciphersuites) may constrain the Transport 
> Protocols that can be selected during connection establishment.
> 
> Except as noted below, as with the rest of the TAPS system, exact names of parameters and/or
> values of enumerations (e.g., ciphersuites) used in the security parameters are system
> and implementation specific, and should be chosen to follow the principle of least 
> surprise for users of the platform / language environment in question.
> 
> ### Specifying Security Parameters on a Preconnection
> 
> Common security parameters such as TLS ciphersuites are known to implementations. 
> Clients should use common safe defaults for these values whenever possible. 
> However, as discussed in {{?RFC8922}}, many transport security protocols require specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document specifies an abstract API, which may appear to conflict with the need
for security parameters to be unambiguous in order to reduce the chances
of implementation errors. The Transport Services system SHOULD provide reasonable,
secure defaults for each enumerated security parameter, such that users of the system
only need to specify parameters required to establish a secure connection
('server-certificate', 'client-certificate'). Specifying specific security parameters
from enumerated values (e.g., specific ciphersuites) may constrain the Transport
Protocols that can be selected during connection establishment.

Except as noted below, as with the rest of the TAPS system, exact names of parameters and/or
values of enumerations (e.g., ciphersuites) used in the security parameters are system
and implementation specific, and should be chosen to follow the principle of least
surprise for users of the platform / language environment in question.

### Specifying Security Parameters on a Preconnection

Common security parameters such as TLS ciphersuites are known to implementations.
Clients should use common safe defaults for these values whenever possible.
However, as discussed in {{?RFC8922}}, many transport security protocols require specific
```

security parameters and constraints from the client at the time of configuration and

> actively during a handshake. 
> 
> The configuration parameters need to be specified in the pre-connection phase
> and are created as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
actively during a handshake.

The configuration parameters need to be specified in the pre-connection phase
and are created as follows:
```

~~~
SecurityParameters := NewSecurityParameters()
~~~

Security configuration parameters and sample usage follow:

> - A certificate bundle identifying the Local Endpoint, whether as a server
>   certificate or a client certificate. Note that if the private keys associated
>   with a bundle are not available, e.g., since they are stored in hardware
>   security modules (HSMs), handshake callbacks must be used. See below for details.

Author: ```suggestion
- One or more certificate bundles identifying the Local Endpoint, whether as a server
  certificate or a client certificate. Multiple bundles may be provided to allow selection
  among different protocol stacks that may require differently formatted bundles. The form and format of the certificate bundle is implementation-specific. Note that if the private keys associated
  with a bundle are not available, e.g., since they are stored in hardware
  security modules (HSMs), handshake callbacks must be used. See below for details.
```

~~~

> SecurityParameters.Set(server-certificate, myCertificateBundle)
> SecurityParameters.Set(client-certificate, myCertificateBundle)

Author: ```suggestion
SecurityParameters.Set(server-certificate, myCertificateBundle[])
SecurityParameters.Set(client-certificate, myCertificateBundle[])
```

Clients should use common safe defaults for these values whenever possible.
However, as discussed in {{?RFC8922}}, many transport security protocols require specific
security parameters and constraints from the client at the time of configuration and
actively during a handshake.

The configuration parameters need to be specified in the pre-connection phase
and are created as follows:

~~~
SecurityParameters := NewSecurityParameters()
~~~

Security configuration parameters and sample usage follow:

- One or more certificate bundles identifying the Local Endpoint, whether as a server
  certificate or a client certificate. Multiple bundles may be provided to allow selection
  among different protocol stacks that may require differently formatted bundles. The form and format of the certificate bundle is implementation-specific. Note that if the private keys associated
  with a bundle are not available, e.g., since they are stored in hardware
  security modules (HSMs), handshake callbacks must be used. See below for details.

~~~
SecurityParameters.Set(server-certificate, myCertificateBundle[])
SecurityParameters.Set(client-certificate, myCertificateBundle[])

> ~~~

Author: ```suggestion
~~~

- One or more certificate chains to use as pinned server certificates, such that connection will fail if the presented server certificate does not match one of the  supplied pinned certificates. The form and format of the certificate chain is implementation-specific 

~~~
SecurityParameters.Set(pinned-server-certificate, yourCertificateChain[])
~~~
```

of Connection establishment. Similar to Transport Properties, both parameters and callbacks
are inherited during cloning (see {{groups}}).

> This document specifies an abstract API, which may appear to conflict with the need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document specifies an abstract API, which could appear to conflict with the need
```

> for security parameters to be unambiguous in order to reduce the chances

Reviewer 2: /in order to reduce/intended to reduce/

Author: ```suggestion
for security parameters to be unambiguous, intended to reduce the chances
```

> for security parameters to be unambiguous, intended to reduce the chances

Reviewer: This comma seems a bit odd here

Author: yeah, this was a vestigial edit, fixed.

> of implementation errors. The Transport Services system SHOULD provide reasonable,

Reviewer 2: /Transport Services system/Transport Services System/

Author: ```suggestion
of implementation errors. The Transport Services System SHOULD provide reasonable,
```

> for security parameters to be unambiguous, intended to reduce the chances
> of implementation errors. The Transport Services System SHOULD provide reasonable,

Author: ```suggestion
for security parameters to be unambiguous. The Transport Services System SHOULD provide reasonable,
```

secure defaults for each enumerated security parameter, such that users of the system
only need to specify parameters required to establish a secure connection

> ('server-certificate', 'client-certificate'). Specifying specific security parameters

Reviewer: Are these examples? Generally, you don't need to set _both_.

Reviewer: Or do we mean local cert?

> from enumerated values (e.g., specific ciphersuites) may constrain the Transport

Author: ```suggestion
from enumerated values (e.g., specific ciphersuites) might constrain the Transport
```

> Protocols that can be selected during connection establishment.

Reviewer 2: possible /may/MAY/

Author: no, but may/might.

Except as noted below, as with the rest of the Transport Services API, exact names of parameters and/or
values of enumerations (e.g., ciphersuites) used in the security parameters are system

> and implementation specific, and should be chosen to follow the principle of least

Reviewer: SHOULD or ought to?

Author: ```suggestion
and implementation specific, and ought to be chosen to follow the principle of least
```

surprise for users of the platform / language environment in question.

### Specifying Security Parameters on a Preconnection

Common security parameters such as TLS ciphersuites are known to implementations.

> Clients should use common safe defaults for these values whenever possible.

Author: ```suggestion
Applications should use common safe defaults for these values whenever possible.
```

> Applications should use common safe defaults for these values whenever possible.

Reviewer: should/SHOULD?

Author: ```suggestion
Applications SHOULD use common safe defaults for these values whenever possible.
```

> However, as discussed in {{?RFC8922}}, many transport security protocols require specific

Reviewer 2: /Clients/ - is that applictaion, the APi, the transport services system?  I was not sure.

Author: it's the app, editing.

security parameters and constraints from the client at the time of configuration and
actively during a handshake.

The configuration parameters need to be specified in the pre-connection phase
and are created as follows:

~~~
SecurityParameters := NewSecurityParameters()
~~~

Security configuration parameters and sample usage follow:

- One or more certificate bundles identifying the Local Endpoint, whether
  as a server certificate or a client certificate. Multiple bundles may
  be provided to allow selection among different protocol stacks that may
  require differently formatted bundles. The form and format of the
  certificate bundle is implementation-specific. Note that if the private
  keys associated with a bundle are not available, e.g., since they are stored in hardware

>   security modules (HSMs), handshake callbacks must be used. See below for details.

Reviewer: must/MUST/need to

Author: ```suggestion
  security modules (HSMs), handshake callbacks are necessary. See below for details.
```

~~~
SecurityParameters.Set(server-certificate, myCertificateBundle[])
SecurityParameters.Set(client-certificate, myCertificateBundle[])
~~~

- One or more certificate chains to use as pinned server

>   certificates, such that connection will fail if the presented server

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  certificates, such that connecting will fail if the presented server
```
Or "a connection", or even "a call to Inititate()" ...

  certificate does not match one of the  supplied pinned certificates.
  The form and format of the certificate chain is implementation-specific.

~~~
SecurityParameters.Set(pinned-server-certificate, yourCertificateChain[])
~~~

- Application-layer protocol negotiation (ALPN) values: used to indicate which
  application-layer protocols are negotiated by the security protocol layer.
  See {{!ALPN=RFC7301}} for definition of the ALPN field. Note that the Transport
  Services System can provide ALPN values automatically, based on
  the protocols being used, if not explicitly specified by the application.

~~~
SecurityParameters.Set(alpn, "h2")
~~~

> - Supported algorithms, ciphersuites, groups: Used to restrict what parameters

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Supported groups, ciphersuites, algorithms: Used to restrict what parameters
```
I think this list should be in the same order as the three example commands below. You could also go the other way round - change the order of commands. I don't think it matters, but it's a bit weird to have this in a different sequence here.

>   are used by underlying transport security protocols. When not specified, '

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  are used by underlying transport security protocols. When not specified,
```

>   these algorithms should use known and safe defaults for the system. 

Author: ```suggestion
  these algorithms should use known and safe defaults for the system.
```

~~~
SecurityParameters.Set(supported-group, "secp256r1")
SecurityParameters.Set(ciphersuite, "TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256")
SecurityParameters.Set(signature-algorithm, "ecdsa_secp256r1_sha256")
~~~

- Session cache management: Used to tune session cache capacity, lifetime, and
other policies.

~~~
SecurityParameters.Set(max-cached-sessions, 16)

SecurityParameters.Set(cached-session-lifetime-seconds, 3600)
~~~

- Pre-Shared Key import: Used to install pre-shared keying material established

> out-of-band. Each pre-shared keying material is associated with some identity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
out-of-band. Each instance of pre-shared keying material is associated with some identity
```

that typically identifies its use or has some protocol-specific meaning to the
Remote Endpoint. Note that use of a pre-shared key will tend to select a single

> security protocol and therefore a single underlying protocol stack directly.

Author: ```suggestion
security protocol, and therefore directly select a single underlying protocol stack.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: /therefore a single underlying protocol stack directly/therefore directly select a specific underlying protocol stack/
